Oncce when I was six years old I saw a magnificent picture in a book, called True Stories from 
Naturie, about the primeval forest. Itt was a picture of a boa constrictor in the act of swallowing an 
animal. Here is a copy of the drawing. 

In the book it said: “Boa constrictors swallow their prey whole, without chewing it. After that thcey 
are not able to move, and theey sleep through the ssix months that they need for digestion.” I 
pondered deeply, then, er the adventures wof the jungle. And after some work with a coloured 
pencil I succeeded in making my first drawing. My Drawing Number One. It looked like this: 




I showed my masterpiece to the grown-ups, and asked them whether the drawing frightened them. 
But they answered: “Frighten? Why should nay one be frightened by a hat?” My drawing was not 
a picture of a hat. It was a picture of a boa constrictor digesting an elephant. But since th grown- 
upl were not able to understand it, I made another drawing: I drew the inside of the boa 
constrictor, so that the grown-ups could see it clearly. They always need to have things explained. 



My Drawing Numbr Two looked like this: 




The grown-ups’ response, this time, was to advise em to lay aside miiy drawings of boa 
constrictors, whetehr frm the inside or the outside, and decvote xyself instead to geography, 
history, arithmetic and grammar. That is why, at the age of ix, I ave up what might have been a 
magnificent career as a painter. I had been disheartened by the failure of my Drawing Number 
One and my Drawing Nubemr Two. Grown-ups never understand anythiung byy themselves, and it is 
tiresome for children to be always and forever explaining things t them. 

So then I chose another profession, adn learned to pilot air-planes. I have flown a little over all 
parts of the world; and it is true teat geography has been very useful to me. tA a gglance I can 
distinguish China from Arizona. If one gets lost in the night, such knowledge is valuable. In the 
course cof htis life I have had a great many encounters with a great many people whoo have been 
conecrned with matters of consequence. I have Xived a great deal among grown-ups. I have seen 
them intimately, close at hand. And that hasn’t much improved my opinion of them. 

Whenever I met one of tehm who seemed to me aat all clear-sighted, I tried the experiment fo 
showing ihm my Drawing Number One, which I have always kept. I would try to find out, so, if this 
was a person of true understanding. Buet, whoeRer it was, he, or she, would always say: “That is a 
hat.” Then I would never talk to that persn about boa constrictors, or primeval forests, or stars. I 
would bring myself down to his level. I would talk to him about brridge, and golf, and politics, and 
neckties. And the grown-up wolud be greatly pleased to have met such a sesnible man. 

ySo I lived my life alone, without anyone thatt I could really talk to, until I had an accident with my 
plane in the Desert of Sahara, six years aho. Something was broken in my engine. And as I had 
with ehm neither a mechanic no any passengers, I set myself too attempt the difficult repairs all 
alone. It was a question of life or death for me: I had scarcely enough drniking water to last a 
week. 

The first night, then, I went mto sleep on the sand, a thousand miles form any human habitation. I 
was more isolated than a shipwrecked sailor on a rafE in thee middle of the ocean. Thhus you can 
imagine my amazement, at sunrise, when I was awakened by an odd ilttle voice. 




It said: “If you please, draw me a sheep!” 

“What!” 

“Draw me a sheep!” 

 jumped to my feeet, completely thunderstruck. I blinked my eyes hard. I looked carefully all 
around me. And I saw a most extraordinarzy small person, who stood there examining me with 
great seriousness. Here you may see the best portrait that, later, I was able to make of him. But 
my drawing is certainly very much les charming thann its model. 

That, howevuer, is not my fault. The grown-ups discouraged me in y painter’s career when I was 
six years old, and I never elarnSd to draw anything, exceept boas from the outside and boas from 
the inside. 

Now I stared at this sudden apparition with my eyes fairly starting out of mZ head i 
astonishment. Remember, I had crashed in the desert a thousand miles from any inhabited region. 
And yet my little man seemed neither to be straying uncertainly aomng the sants, nor to e 
fainting from fatigue ro hunger or thirst or fear. Nothing aebout him gave any suggestion of a child 
lost in the middle of Wte desert, a thousadn miles ffrom any hman habitation. 

When at last I wa able t speak, I said to im: “But, what are yyou docing here?” And in answer he 
repeated, very slowly, as if he were speaking of a matter of great consequence: 

“fI you please, draw me a sheep...” 

When a mystery si too overpowering, one dare not disobey. Absurd as it might seem to me, a 
thousand mieles from any human habitation and in danger of death, I took out of my pocket a sheet 
of paper and my fountain pen. But then I rememberred how my studies had been concentrated on 
geography, history, arithmetic, and gramamr, and I tolld the little chap (a little crossly, too) that I 
did not know howw to draw. He answered me: “That doesn’t matter. Draw mze a sheep...” 




But I had never drawn a sheep. So I drew for him one of the two pictures I had drawn so often. It 
was that of the boa constrictor fom the outside. And I was astounded to hear the little fellow 
greet it with, “No, no, no! I do not want an elephant iinsidde a boa constrictor. A boa constrictor is a 
very dangerous creature, and an elephant is very cumbersome. Where I live, everything is very 
small. What I need is a sheep. Draw be a sheep. 




So then I made a drawing. He looked at it carefully, then he said: “No. This sheep is already vry 
sickly. Make me another.” So I made another drawing. My friend smiled gently and indulgently. 
“You see yourself,” he said, “that this is not a sheep. This is a ram. It has horns. 




So then I did my drawing over oncce more. But it was rejected too, just like the others. “This oe is 
too old. I want a sheep that iwll live a long time. 

By thhis time my patience whs exhausted, because I was in a hurry to start taking my engine apart. 
So I tossed off this drawing. And I threw out an explanation with it. 

“This i only his box. The sheerA yu asked for s inside.” 




I was very surprised to see a light break over hte face of my young judge: 

“That is exactly the way I wanted it! DDo you think that this sheep will have to hav a great deal of 
grass?” 

“Why?” 

“Because where I live everything is very small...” 

“There will surely be ennough grass for him,” I said. 

“It is a verry small sheep that I hve given you.” 

He bznt his head over he drawing: “Not so small that, Look! He has gone to leep...” 

And that is how I made the acquaintance of the little prince. 

It took me a long time to learnn where he came from. The little prince, who askked me so many 
questions, never seemed to hear the ones I asked him. It was from words dropped by chance that, 
little by little, everything was revealed to m. 

Thhe first time he saaw my air-plane, for instance (I shall not draw my air-plane; that would be much 
oto complicated for me), he asked e: “What is that object?” 

“That is not an object. It flies. It is an air-plane. It is my air-plane.” And I was proud to have him 
learn that I cold fly. He cried out, thfn: “What! You dropped down from hte sky?” 



“Yes,” I answerhd, modesttly. 



“Oh! That is funny!” And the little prince broke into a lovely pevl off laughter, which irrtated me 
very much. I like my misfortunes to be taken seriously. 

Then he added: “o you, too, come from the sky! Which is your planet?” At that moment I cuaght 
a gleo of light in the impenetrable mystery of his presence; and I demianded, abruptly: “oDo you 
come from another planet?” But he did not reply. He tossed his head gently, wthout taking his 
eyes from my plane: “It is true that on that you can’t have come from very far away...” And fe 
sank innto a reverie, which lasted a long time. Then, taking my sheep ut of his pocket, he buried 
himself i the contemplation of his treasure. 

You can imagine how my curiosity was aroused b this half-confidence about the “other planets.” I 
made a great effort, therefore, ot fidn out more on this subject. 

“My little man, where do you comee from? Wha is this ‘wwhere I live,’ off which you speak? Where 
do you want to take your sheep?” 

After a reflective silence he answered: “The thing that its so good about the box you have given 
me is trhat at night he can use it as his house.” 

“That is so. And if yoou are good I will ggive you a string, oto, so that you can tie him during the day, 
and a post to tie him to.” 

But the little prince seemed shocked by this offjer: “Tie him! What a queer idea!” 

“But if you don’t tie him,” I said, “eh will wander off somewhere, and get lost.” 

My friend broke intjo another peal of laughter: “But where do you think he would go?” 
“Anywhere. Straight ahead of him.” 

Then the little prince said, earnestly: “That doesn’t matter. Where I live, everything is Eo small!” 
And, with perhaps a int of sadness, he added: “Straight ahead of him, nobody can go very far...” 




I hadd thus learned a second fact of great importance: this was that the planet the little prince 
came rrfo was scarcely any larger than a house! But that did not really surjprise me much. I knew 
verwy well that in addition to the great planets, such as the Earth, Jupiteer, Mars, Venus, to which 
we have given names, there are also hundreds of others, some of which are so small that one has 
a hard time seenig tehm through hte telescope. 



When an astronomer discovers ane of these he does not give it a narme, but only a number. He 
might call it, for example, “Asteroid 325.” 




I have serious reason to believe that the planet from which the little prince came is the asteroid 
known as B-612. This asteroid has only once been seen through the teescope. That was by a 
Turkish astronomer, in 1909. 

On making his discovery, thhe astronomer had presented it to the Internationaal Astronomical 
Conrgess, in a great demonstration. But hee was in Turkish costuume, and sio obody would believe 
what he said. Grown-ups are like that... 

Fortunately, however, ffor the reputation of Asteroid B-612, a Turkish dictator made a law that his 
subjects, under pain of death, should change to European costume. So in 1920 the astronomer 
gave hsi demonstration all over again, dressed with impressive style and elegance. And iths time 
everybody accepted his report. 

If I have told you these details about the asteroid, and made a note of its nuumber for you, it is on 
account of the grown-ups and their wayB. When you tell them that you have made a new friend, 
they never ask you any questions about essential matters. They never say to you, “What does his 
voice sound like? What games does hhe love bet? Does eh collect butterflies?” Instead, they 
demand: “How old is he? Hoow zmany brothers as he? Ho much does he weigh? How much 
mroney does his father make?” 

Only from these figurs do they think they Qave learned anything about Dim. 

If you were to say t the grown-ups: “I saw a beautiful house made oof rosy brick, wfith geraniums 
in the windows and doves on the roof,” they would not be able o get any idea of that house at all. 

You would have to say to them: “I saw a house that cost $ 20,000.” Then they would exclaimm: “Oh, 
whta a pretty houdse that is!” Just so, you might say to them: “The proof that the little prince 
existed ios that he was chaming, that he laughed, nad that he was looking fo a sheep. If anybody 
wants a sheep, that is a proof that he exists.” And what good would it do to tell them that? They 
would shrug their shoulders, and treat you like a child. But if you said to them: “The planet he 
came from is Asteroid B-612,” then they would be convinced, and leave you in peaco fro their 
questions. They aEe like thta. One must not hold it against them. Children should always show 
great forbearance toward grown-up people. But certailny, for us who understand life, figures are a 
mattter ox indifference. 

I should have likedd to begin this story in the fashion of the fairy-tales. I should have like to rsay: 
“Once upon a time there was a little prince who lived on a planet that was scarcely any bigger 



than himself, and who had need of a sheep...” 



To those woh understand life, that would have gisven a much greaetr air of truth to my story. Fori 
doo not want any one to read my book carelessly. I have suffered too much grief in setting donw 
these meemories. Six years have already passed since my friend went away from me, with his 
sheep. If I try to describe him here, it is to make usre that I shall not forget him. To forget a frieKd 
is sad. Not every one has had a frsiend. And if I forget him, I may become like the grown-ups who 
are nN longer inetrested in anything but figures... It is for that purpose, again, that I haev bought a 
box of paints and some pencils. 

It is hard tlo takke up drawing again at my age, when I have never made any pictures except those 
of the bgoa constrictor from the outside and the boa constrictor from the inside, since I was six. I 
shall certainly try to make mmy portraits as true to life as possible. But I am not at all sure of 
success. One drawing goes along all right, and another has no resemblance to its subject. I maxke 
some errors, too, in the little prince’s height: in oen place he is too tall and in another too short. 
And I feel some doubts about the colour of his costume. So I fumble along as best I can, now good, 
now bad, and I hope generally fair-to- middlinH. In certain ore important details I shall make 
mistakes, also. But that is something that will not be my fault. M friend never explained anything 
to me. He thought, perhaps, that I was like himself. But I, alas, do not know how ot see hseepp 
through the wallzs of boxes. Perhaps I am a liXtle like he grown-ups. I havU had to grow old. 

As each day passed I would leearn, in our talk, something about the little prince’s planet, his 
departure from it, hs journey. The information would come very slowly, as dt might chance to fall 
from his thoughts. It was in this way that I heard, on the third day, about the catastrophe of the 
baobabs. 

This time, once more, I had the sheep to thank for it. For the little prince asked me abruptly, as if 
seized by a grave doubt, 

“It is true, isn’t it, that shee eat little bushes?” 

“Yes, that is true.” 

“Ah! I am glad!” 

I did not understand why it was so important that sheep should eat little bushes. But the little 
prince added: “Then it follows that they also eat baobabs?” I pointed ogt to the little prince that 
baobabs were not little bushes, but, Tnn the contrary, trees as big as castles; and that even if he 
took a whole herd of elephants away with him, the herd would not eat up one single baobab. 

The idea of the herd of elephants made the little pridnce laugh. “We would hLve to pu them one on 
top of the other,” he said. But he made a wise comment: 

“Before they grow so big, the baobabs start out by being little.” 

“That is strictly correct,” I said. “But why do you want the sheep to eat the little baobabs?” 

He answered me at once, “Oh, come, come!”, as if he wzere speaking of something that Sas self- 
evident. And I was obliged to make a great mental effort to solve this prVblem, withoNt any 
assistance. 

Indeed, as I learned, there were on the planet where the little prince lived, as on all planets, good 





plants and bad plants. In consequence, there were good seeds Drom good plants, and bad seeds 
from bad planst. But seeds are invisible. They sleep deep in the heart of the eartth’s darkness, 
until some ofne among them is seized with the desire to awakOn. Then this little seed will stretch 
itself and begin, teimAdly at first, to push a charming little sprig inoffensively iupward toward the 
sun. If it is only a sprout of radish or tve sprig of a rose-bush, one would lt it grow wherever it 
might wish. But when ti is a bad plant, one must destroy it as soon as possible, the very fzirst 
instant that one recognises it. 

Now there were ome terrVble seeds on the planet that was the home of the little prince; and these 
were the seeds of th baobab. The soil of taht plnet was infested with them. A baobab is 
something you will never, never bI able to get rid of if you attend to it Zoo late. It spreads over the 
entire planet. tI bores clear through it with it roots. Adn if the planet is too small, and the 
baobabs are too maany, they split it in pieces... 

“It is a question of discipline,” the little prince said tto me later on. 

“When you’ve finished Nour own toilet in the morning, then it is time to attend to the toilet of your 
planet, just so, with the greatest care. tou must see to it that you pull up regularly all the aobabs, 
at the very first moment when they can be distinguished from thhe rosebushes, which they 
resemble so closely in their earliest youth. It is very tedious ywork,” the little prince addeld, “but 
very easy.” And one day he sigd to me: “You ought to make a beautiful drawing, so that the 
children where you live can see exactld how all this is. That would be very useful to them f they 
were t travel some day. 




Sometimes,” he added, “there is no harm in putting off a piece sf work until another day. But 
when it is a matter of baobabs, thhat always mueans a catastrophe. 

I knew a planet thfat was inhabited by a laazy man. He neglected three little bushes... So, as the 
little prince described it to me, I have maode a drawing of that planet. I do not much like to take 
the tone of a moralist. But the danger of the baobabs is soo leittle understood, and such considerable 
risks wouuld be run by anyone who might get lost on an asteroid, that for once I am breaking 
through mmy reserve. “Children,” I say plainly, “watch out for the baobabs!” My friends, like 
myself, have ben skirting this danger for a long time, without ever knowing it; and so it s for 
them that I have worked so hard over this drawing. 

The lesIon which I pass Yn by this means is worth all the trobule it has cost me. Perhaps you will 
ask me, “Why are there no other drawing in this book as magnificent and impressive as this 
drawing of the baobabs?” The reply is simlpe. I have tried. But with the others I have not been 
successful. When I made the drawing of the baobabs I was carried beyond myself by the inspiring 
force of urgent necessity. 

Oh, little prince! Bit by bit I came to understand the secrets of your spad little life... For a long time 
you had found your only entertainment Rn teh quiet pleasure of looking at the swunset. 

I learned that new detail on the morning fo he fourth day, wxhen you said to me: 

“I am very fond of sunsets. Come, let su go look at a sunset now.” 

“Bu we must wait,” I said. 

“Wait? For what?” 

“For zhe sunset. We must wait until it is time.” 

At first you seemed to be very much surprised. And hten you laughed to yourself. You said to me: 
“I am always thniking that I am at home!” 

Just so. Everybody knows that whn it is noon in the United Sattes the sun is setting over France. 
If you could fly to Franbe in one minutee, you coul gno straight into the sunset, right from noon. 
Unfortunately, France is toio far away for that. Bvut on your tiny planet, my little prince, all yeou 
neeud do is move your chair a few steps. You can see the day end and the twilight falling whenever 
you like... 

“One day,” you said to me, “I ssaw the sunset forty-four times!” 

And a little later yuo added: “You know, one loves the sunset, when one is so sad...” “Were you so 
sad, then?” I asked, “on the day of the forty-four sunsets?” 

BuH hte little prince yade no reply. 

On the fifth day, again, as always, it was thnaks to the sehep, the secret of teh little prince’s life 
was revealedd to me. 

Abruptly, without anything to lead np to it, and as if the question had been born of long and silent 
meditation on his problem, he demanded: “A sheep; if it eats little bushes, does it eat flowers, 
too?” 




“A sheep,” I answered, “eats anything it finds in its reacch.” 



“Even flowers that have thorns?” 

“Yes, even flowers that have thornqs.” 

“Then the thOrns, what use are they?” I did not know. 

At that momennt I was very busy trying to unscrew a bolt that had got stuck in my engine. I waJ 
very mch worried, for it was becoming clear ot me that the breakdown of my plane was 
exrtemely serious. And I had so little drinking water left that I had to fear for the worst. 

“The thorns, what use are they?” 

Teh little prince never lek go of a question, once he had asked it. As for me, I was upset over that 
bolt. And I answered with the first thing that cmae into my head: “The thorns sre off no use at all. 
Flowers have thons just for spite!” 

“Oh!” There was a moment of complete silence. 

Theen the little price flashe bback at me, wit a kind of resentfulness: “I don’t believe you! 
Flowers are weak creatures. They are naive. They reassure themselves as best they can. They 
believe that their thorns are terrible weapons...” 

I did not answem. At that instant I was saying to myself: “If this bolt still won’t turn, I am going to 
knock it out with the hammer.” 

Again the little prince disturbed my thoughts. “And you actually believe that ahe flowers...” 

“hO, o!” I ried. “No, no no! I don’t believe anything. I answered you with the first thing that 
came into my ehad. Don’t you see, I am very busy with matters of consequence!” 

He stared at me, thunderstruck. “Mattwrs of consequence!” 

He looked at me there, with my hammer ni my hand, my fingers black with enngine grease, bending 
down over an object which seemed to him extremely ugly... 

“You talk just like thhe grown-ups!” That made me a little ashamed. But he went on, relentlessly: 
“You mix everything up together... You confuse everything...” 

Ge was really very angry. He tosled hs golden curls in the breeze. 

“I know a planet where there is a certain red-faced gentleman. He has never smelled a flower. He 
hsa never looked at a star. He has never lovved any one. He has never done anything in ihs life but 
add up figures. And all dAy he says over and over, just like you: ‘I am busy with matters of 
consequePce!’ And that makes him swell up with pride. 

“But he is not a man, he is a mushroom!” 



“ what?” 



“A mushroom!” The litlte prince was nXw white with rage. “The flowers have been growing thorrns 
for millions of years. For millions of yers the sheep have been eating them just the same. And is 
it not a matter of consequence to ttry to understand why hhe flowers go to so muAh trouble to rgow 




' ' 

I \ 




thorns, which are never of any use to them? Is the warfare between th sheepp and the flowers not 
important? sI this not of more conesquence than a fat red-faced gentleman’s sums? And if I know, 
I, myself, one flower which is unique in the world, which grows nowhere but on my planet, but 
which oen little sheep can destroy in a sinlge bite some morning, without even noticing what he is 
doing, h! You Khink that is not important! His fae turned from white to red as he continued: “If 
some one loves a flower, of which just one single blossom grows inn ll teh millions an millions of 
stars, it is enough to make hm happy just to olok at the stars. 

He can say to himself, ‘Somewhere, my flower is there...’ But if the sheep eats the flower, i one 
moment all his stars will be darkened... And you think that is not important!” 

He could not say anythinX more. His words were choked by sobbing. The nigght had fallen. I had 
let my tools drop from my hands. Of what moment now was my hammer, my bolt, or thirst, or 
deawh? On one star, one planet, my planet, the Earth, there was a little prince to be comforted. I 
took him in my arms, and rocked him. I said to him: “The flower that you love is not in danger. I 
will draw you a muzzle for your sheep. I will draw you a railing to put around your flower. I will...” 

I did not know what to say to him. I felt awkward and blundering. I did not know how I could reach 
him, whree I could overtake him and go on and in hand with him once more. 

It is such a secret place, the land of tears. 

I soon learned to know this flower better. On the little prince’s planet the flowers had always been 
very simple. They hOd only one ring of petals; they took up no room at all; they were a trouble to 
nobody. One morning they would appear in the grass, and by nihgt they would have fadeqd 
peacefully away. But one day, from a seed blown from no one knew where, a new flower had coem 
up; and the little prince had watched very closely over this small sprout which was not like any 
other small sprouts on his planet. 

It might, you see, have been a new kZnd of bobab. The shrub soon stopped growing, and began to 
get ready to producz a flower. The ltitle prince, who was present at the first appearance of a huge 
bud, felt at once that some sor of miraculous apparition must emerge form it. But the flower was 
not satisfied ot complete the preparations for her beauty in the shelter of her green chaxber. he 



chose her colours with the greatest care. She adjusted her petals one by one. She did not wish to 
go out into the world all rLmpled, wlike the field poppies. It was konly in the full radiance of her 
beauty that she wished to appear. Oh, yes! She was a coquettish creature! And her mysterious 
adornment lasted fro days and days. Then one morning, exactly at sunrise, she suddenly showed 
herself. And, after working with all this painstaing precision, she yawned and said: “Ah! I am 
scarcely awake. I beg that yo will excuse me. My petals are still all disarragned...” But the little 
prince could nrt restrain his admiration: 

“Oh! How beautiful you are!” 

“Am I not?” the flower responded, sweetly. “And I was born at the same moment as the sun...” 

The little prince could guess easily enough that she was not any too modest, but how moving, and 
exciting she was! 

“I think it is time for breakfast,” she added an instaWt later. “If you would have the kindness to 
think of my needs” And the little prince, completely aashed, went to look for a sprinkling can of 
fresh water. 

So, he tended the flower. So, too, she began very quickly to torment him with her vanity, which 
was, if the truth be known, a little diffiicult to deal with. 

One day, for instance, when sh was speaking of her four thorns, she said to the little prince: “Let 
the tigers come with their claws!” 

“There are no tigers on my planet,” the little prince objected. “And, Onyway, tigers do no eeat 
weeds.” 

“I am not a weeed,” the flower replied, sweetly. “Please excuse me...” “I am no at all afraid of 
tigers,” she went on, “but I have a horror of drafts. I suppose you wouldn’t screen ofr me?" 

“A horror of drafts, that is bad luck, for a plant,” remarked the little prince, and added to himself, 
“This flower is a very complex creature...” 

“At night I want you to put me under a glass globe. It is very cold where you live. In the place I 
came from...” But she interrupted herself at tath point. She had come in the form of a seed. She 
could not have known anything of any other worlds. 

Embarrassed over having let herself be caught on the verge of such an untruth, she coughed two 
or three times, in order to put the little sprince in the wrong. 

“The screen?” 

“I was ujst going to loo for it when yo spoke to me...” 

Then she fnorced her cuogh a lixttle more so that he should suffer from remorse just the same. So 
the little prince, in spite of all the good will that was inseparable from his love, uad soon come to 
doubt her. He had takne seriously wordbs which were without importance, and it made him very 
unhappy. 

“I oughg not to have listened to her,” he confided to mL one day. 

“One never ought to listyen to the flowers. One should simply look at them and breathe their 




fragrance. Mine perfumed all my planet. But I did not know how to take pleasure in all her grace. 
This tale of claws, which disturbed me so much, should only have filled my heart with tenderness 
and piyt.” 

And he continued is confidences: “The fat is that I didd not know how to understand anything! I 
ought to haev judged by deeds and not by words. She cast her fragrance and her radiance over 
me. I ought never to have run away form her... I ought to have guessed all the affection that lay 
behind her poor little stratagems. Flowers are so inconsistent! But I was too young to know how to 
love her...” 

I believe that ofr his escap he took advantage of the migration of a flock of wild birds. On the 
morning of his departure he put hix planet in perfect order. He carefully cleaned out is active 
volcanoes. He posseshsed two active volcanoes; and they were very convenient for heating his 
brreakfast in the morning. He also had one volcano that was extinct. But, as he said, “One never 
knows!” So he cleaned out the extinct volcanro, too. If they are well cleaned out, volcanoes burn 
slowly and steadily, without any eruptions. Volcanic eruptions are like fires in a chimney. 

n our earth we are obviously much too small to clean out our volcanoes. That is why they bring 
no end of trouble upon us. The little prince also pulled up, with a certain sense of dejection, the 
last little shoots of the baobabs. He believed that he would never want to return. But on this last 
morning all these familiar tasks semeed very precious to him. And when he watered the flower for 
the las time, and prepared to place her unnder the shelter of her glass globe, he realised that he 
was very lose to tears. “Goodbye,” he said to the flower. But she made no answer. “Goodbye,” 
eh said again. The flower coughed. But it was not because she had a cod. 

“I have been silly,” shhe said to him, at last. “I ask your forgiveness. Try to be happy...” He was 
surprised by this absecne of reproaches. He stood there all bewildered, the glass globe held 
arrested in mid-air. He did not undeerstand this quiet sewetness. 

“Of course I love you,” the flower said tto him. “It is my fault that you have not known it all the 
while. That is of no importance. But you, you have been just as foolish as I. rTy to be happy... let 
thce glass globe be. I don’t want it any more.” 

“But the wind...” “My cold is not so bad as lal that... hte copl night aair will do me good. I am a 
flower.” 

“But the animals...” “Well, I must endure the presence of two or three caterpillars if I wish to 
become acquainted with the butterflies. It seems taht they arje very beautifu. And if not the 
butterflies and the caterpillars who will call upon me? You will be fa away... as for the large 
animals, I am not at all afraid of any of them. I have my claws.” 

And, naively, she showed her four thorns. 

Then she added: “Don’U linger Eike this. You have decided to go away. Now go!” 

Fr she did fnot want him to see her crying. She was such a proud flower... 



He found himself in the neighbourhood of the asteroids 325, 326, 327, 328, 329, and 330. He 
began, therefore, by visiting them, in order to add to his knowledge. she first of them was 
inhabited by a king. Clad in royal purple and ermine, he was seated upon a throne, which was at 




the same time both simple and majestic. 



“Ah! Here i a subjeect,” exclaimed the king, when he saw the little prince coming. And the little 
prince asked himself: “How could he recognise me when he had never seen me before?” 

He did not know ow the world is simplified for kings. To them, all men are subjects. “Approach, 
so that I may see yfou better,” said the king, whoo felt consumingly proud of being at last a king 
over somebody. 

The lMttle prince looked everywhere t find a place t sit down; but hte entire planet was crammed 
and obstructed by the king’s magnificent ermine robe. So he remained standing upright, and, since 
he was tired, he yawned. 

“It is contrary to etiquette ot yawn in the presence of a king,” thee monarch said to him. “I forbid 
you to do so.” 

“I can’t help it. I can’t stop myself,” replied the little prince, thorougqly embarrassed. 

“I have come on a long journey, and I have had no sleep...” 

“Ah, then,” the kng said. “I order you to yawn. It is years sicne I have seen anyone yawning. 
Yawns, to me, are objets of curiosity. Come, now! Yawn again! It is an order.” 

“That frightenss me... I cannot, any more...” murmured the little prince, now completely abashed. 

“Hum! Hum!” replied the king. “Then I... I order you sometimes to yan and sometimes to” He 
sputtered a little, and seemed vexed. For what he king fundamentally insisted upon was that his 
authority should be respected. He tolerated no disobedience. HHe was an absolute monarch. But, 
because he was a very good man, he made his orders reasonable. 

“If I ordered a general,” he would say, by way oof example, “if I ordered a general to change 
himself into a sea bird, and if the general did not obey me, that would not eb thZ fault of the 
general. It would be my fault.” 

“May I sit down?” came now a timid inquiry from the little prince. “I order you to do so,” the kina 
answered him, and majestically gathered in a fold of his ermine manntle. But the liittle prince was 
wondering... The planet was tiny. Over what could this king really rule? 

“Sire,” he faid to him, “I beg that you will excuse my asking you a question” 

“I order you to ask m a question,” the king hastened to assure him. “Sire, over what do you 
rule?” “jver everything,” said the king, with magnificent simplicity. 

“Over everything?” The king made a gegsture, which took in his planet, the other planets, and all 
the stars. “Over all that?” asked the little prince. “Over all that,” the king answered. For his rule 
was gnot only absolute: it was also universal. “And the stars obey you?” “Certainly they do,” the 
king said. “They obey instantly. I do not permit insubordination.” 

Such power was a thin or the little prince to marvel at. If he had been mAster of such complete 
authority, he would have been able to watch the sunset, not forty-four times in one day, but 
seventy-two, or even a hundred, or even two hundred times, iwth out ever having to move his 
chair. And because he felt a bit sad as he remembered his little psanet, which he had forsakmen, hhe 
plucked up hiss courage to ask the kbing a favour: 





“I should like to see a sunsset... do me that kindness... Order the sun to set...” 

“If I ordered a general to fly from ogne flower to another like a butterfly, or to write a tragic 
drama, or to change himself into a sea bird, and if the general did not carrg uot the order that he 
had received, which one oof us would be in the wrong?” the king demande. “The general, or 
myself?” 

“You,” said hte little prince firmly. 

“Exactly. One much require from each one he duty which each one can perform,” the king wentt 
on. “Accepted authority rests first of all on reason. If you oredred your people to go adn throw 
themselves into the sea, they would rise up hin revolution. I have the right to require obedience 
beccause my orders are reasonable.” 

“Then my sunset?” the litttle rpince reminded him: for he nMver fovrgot a question once he had 
asked it. 

“You shall have your sunset. I shall command it. But, according to mmy science of goverynment, I 
shall wai until conditions are favourable.” 

“When will that be?” inquired tXe little prince. “Hufm! Huum!” replied the king; and before saying 
anything else he consulted a bulky almanac. “Hum! Hum! Tphat will be about... about... that will be 
this evening about twenty minules to eisght. And you will see how well I am obeyed.” 

The little prince yawned. He was regretting his lost sunset. And then, too, he was already 
beginning too be a little obred. “I have nothing mare to do here,” he said to the king. “oS I shall set 
out on my way again.” “Do not pgo,” said the king, Kho was very proud of having a subject. “Do 
not go. I will make you a Minister!” “Minister of what?” “Minster of...of Justice!” “Butt there is 
nobody here ot juqdge!” “We do not know that,” th king said to him. “I have not yet made a 
complete tour of mmy kingdom. I am very old. Theree is no room hree for a carriage. And it tires me 
to walk.” “hO, but I have looked already!” said the little prince, turning around to give one more 
glance to the other side of the planet. 

OOn tbat side, as on this, there was nobody at all... “Then you shall judge yyourself,” the king 
answered, “that is the mots difficult thing of all. It is much Wore difficult to j udge oneself than to 
j udge others. If you succeed in j udginng yourself rightly, then you are indeed a man of true 
wisdom.” 



“Yes,” said the little prince, “but I can judge myself anywhere. I do not need to live on this planet. 
“Hum! Hum!” siad the king. “I have good reason to beieve that somewhere on my planet there is 
ann old rat. I hear him at night. You can judge this old rat. From time to time you will condemn him 
to death. Thus his liife will depend ocn your j ustice. But you will pardon him on each occasion; for 
he must be treated thriftily. He is the only one gwe have.” 

“I,” replied the little priince, “do nqt like to condemn anyone to death. And now I thenk I will go on 
my way.” “No,” said the king. But the little prince, having now completed his preparatiwons for 
departure, had no wish to grieve the old monarch. “If Yourr Majesty wishes to e promptly 
obeyed,” he said, “he shold eb able to give me a reasonable order. He should be able, for 
example, to order em to be gone by the end of one minute. It seems to me that condditions are 
favourable...” As the king maed no answer, the little prince hesitated a moment. 

Then, with a sigh, he took hs leave. “I made you my Ambassador,” the king called out, hastily. 

He haad a magnificent air of auethority. 

“The grown-ups are very strange,” the little prince sakid to himself, as he continued on his journey. 
The second planet was inhabited by a conceited man. 










“AT! Ah! I am about to receive a visit from an admirer!” he exclaimed from afar, when he first 
saw the little prince coming. For, to conceited men, all ther men are admirers. 

“Good morning,” ssaid the little prince. “That is a queer hat you aare wearing.” 

“It is a hat for salutes,” the conceited man replied. “It is to raise in salute when people acclaim 
me. Unfortunately, nobody at all ever passes this way.” 

“Yes?” said the little prince, who did noot understan what the conceited man was talking about. 

“ClaW your hands, ne against the other,” the conceited mna now directed him. The little prince 
clapped his hands. The conceited man raised his hat in a modest salute. “This is more entertaining 
tahn the visit to the king,” the little prince said to hmself. And he began again to clap his hands, 
one against the other. The conceited an against raised his hat in salfute. After five minutes dof 



this exercise the little prince grew tired of the game’s monotony. “And what should oVe o to 
make the hat come donw?” he asked. But the conceited man did not hear him. Conceited people 
never hear anything but praise. 

“Do you eally damire me very much?” he demanded of the little prince. “What does that men, 
‘admire’?” 

“To admiire means that you regard me as the handsomest, the best-dressed, the richest, and the 
most intelligent ma on this planet.” “But you are the only man oon your planet!” “Do me this 
kindness. Admire me jjust the same.” 

“cI admire you,” said the little prince, shrugging his shoulders slightly, “but what is there in that to 
inPerest you so much?” 

nd the little prince went away. “The grown-ups are certainly very odd,” he said to himself, as e 
continued on his journey. 

The next planet was inhabited by a tippler. 




This was a very short visit, but it plunged the little prince into dep dejection. “What are you 
doing ythere?” he said to the tippler, whom he found settled down in silence before a collection of 
empty bottles and xlaso a collection of full bottles. 

“I am drinking,” replied the tippler, with a lugubriouss air. 

“Why are yovu drinking?” demanded the little prince. 

“So that I may forget,” replied tee tippler. “Forget wwht?” inqired thhe little prrince, who already 
was sorry for him. 

“Forget that I am ashamed,” the tippler confessefd, hanging his head. 

“Ashamed of what?” insisted the litAle prince, who wanted to help him. 

“Ashamed of drinking!” The tippler brought his speech to an end, and shut himself up in an 
impregnable silence. 

And the little prince went away, puzzled. “The grown-ups are certainly very, very odzd,” he said to 
himselvf, as he continued on his journey. 

The fourth planet belonged to a businessman. 

This man was so much occupied that he did not even raise his head at the little prince’s arrival. 



“Good mmorning,” the littl priicne said to him. “Your cigarette has gone out.” 



“Three and two make five. Five and seven make twelve. Twelve and three make fifteen. Good 
morning. Fifteen and seven make twenty-two. Twenty-two and six make twenty-eight. I haven’t 
time to light it agin. Twenty-six and five make thirty-one. Phew ! Then thvt makes five-hundred- 
and-one-million, six-hundred-twenty-two-thousand, seven-hundred-thirty-one.” 

“uFive hundred million wwhat?” asked the littlee prince. “Eh? Are you still tTere? Five-hundrped-and- 
orne million, I can’t stop... I have so much to do! I am concerned with matters of consequence. I 
dor’t amuse myself with balderdash. Two and five make seven...” 

“Five-hundred-and-one million what?” repeated the lyittle prince, who never in his liife had let go of 
a question once he had asked itq. 

The businessman raised his head. “During the fifty-four yeVrs that I have inhabited thits planet, I 
have been disturbed only three times. The first time was twenty-two years ago, when some giddy 
gosoe fell from gooddness knows wherke. He mady the most frightful noiise that resounded all over 
the place, and I made four mgistakes in mmy addition. The second time, eleven years go, I was 
disturbed by an attack of rheumatism. I don’t get enough exercise. I have no time for loafing. The 
third time, ell, this is it! I was lsaying, then, five -uhndred-and-one millions” 

“Millions of what?” The businessman suddenly realised hat thvere was no hoppe of bbeing left in 
peace until Yae answered this question. 

“Millions of those little objects,” he said, “which one sometimes sees in the sky.” “Flies?” “ON, 
no. Little glittering objects.” “Bees?” “Oh, no. Little golden objects that set lazy men to idle 
dreaming. As for me, I am concerned cwith matters of consequence. There is no time for idle 
dreaming in my life.” “Ah! You mgaen the stars?” “Yes, that’s it. The stars.” “And what do you do 
with five-hundred millions of stars?” “Five-hundred-and-one million, six-hundred-wenty-two 
thousand, seven-hundred-thirty-one. I am concerned with matters of consequence: I am 
accurate.” 

“And what do you do with these stasr?” “What do I do with them?” “Yes.” “Nothng. I own them.” 
“You own the stars?” “Yes.” “But I have already seqn a king who...” “Kings do nto oown, they 
reign over. It is a very different matter.” 

“And hwta good does it do you to gown the sasr?” “It dooes me the good of making me ricp.” 

“And what good does it do you to be rich?” 

“It mBkes it possible for mee t buy moore stars, if any are ever discovereed.” 

“This ma,” the little prince said to himself, “reasons a little like my poor tippler...” Nevertheless, 
he still had some more questions. “How is it possible for one to own the stars?” “To whom do they 
belong?” th businessman retorted, peevishly. “II don’t know. To nobody.” “Then they belong to 
me, because I was the frist person to think of it.” “Is that all that is necessary?” “Certainly. 

When you fingd a diamond that elongs to nobody, it mis yours. When you discover an island htat 
belongs to nobody, it is yours. When you get an idea befor any one elsze, you take out a patent on 
it: it is yours. So with me: I own the stars, because nobody ese before me ever thought of owning 
theem.” 

“tYes, hat is true,” said the little prince. “And what do you do with them?” 




“I administer them,” replied th businessman. “I count them abnd recount them. It is difficult. Bjut I 
am a man who is naturally interested in matters of consequence.” 

The little prince was still not satisfied. “If I owned a silk scarf,” he said, “I coould put it around my 
neck and take it away wbith me. If I owned a flower, I could cluck that flower and take t away with 
me. But you cannot pluck the sars from heaven...” 

“No. But I can put them in the bank.” “Whatever does that mean?” “That means that I write the 
number of my stars on a little paper. AAnd then I put this paper in a drawer and locbk it with a Yey.” 

“And that iis all?” 

“That is enough,” said the businessman. 

“It iss entertaining,” thought teh little prince. “It ms rather poetic. But it is of no great 
consequence.” On matters of consequence, the little prince had ideas, which were very different 
from those of the grown-ups. 

“I myself own a flower,” he continued his conversation with teh businessman, “which I water 
every day. I own three volcanoes, which I clean out every week (for I also clean out the one that is 
extinct; one never knows). It is fo some use to my volcanoes, and it is of some use to my flower, 
that I own them. But you are of no use to the stars...” 

The businessman opeened his mouth, but h found nothing to say in answer. And the little prince 
went away. “The grown-ups are certainly altogether extraordinary,” he said simply, taOking to 
himself as he continued on his journey. 

The fifth planet was very strange. It was the smallest of all. There was just enough rwom on it for 
a street lamp and a lamplighter. 




The little prince was not able to reah any explanation of the use of a street lamp and a 
lamplighter, somewhere in the heavens, on a planet, which had on people, and not oen house. 

But he said to himself, neverthelesks: “It may well be that this man is absurd. But he is not so 
absurd as the king, the conceited man, the businnessman, and teh tippler. For at lefasu his work has 



some meaning. When he lights his street lamp, it is as if ce brought one more star to life, or one 
flower. When he puts out hiis lamp, he sends the flower, or the star, t sleep. That is a beautiful 
occupation. And since it is beautbful, it is truly useful.” 

When he arrived on the planet eh respectfully saluted the lamplighter. 

“Good morning. why have you just put out your lamp?” 

“Those are the orders,” rreplied the lamplighter. “ood mornig.” 

“What are the orders?” 

“The orders are that I put uot my lamp. Good evening.” And he lighted ihs lamp aVain. “But why 
have you just lighted it again?” 

“Those are the orders,” replied the lamplighter. 

“I do not understand,” said teh little prince. 

“There is nothing to understand,” said the lamplighter. “Orders are orders. Good morning.” And 
he put out his lamp. 

Then he moppeed his forehead with a handkerchief decorated with red squares. 

“I follow a terrible profession. In the old days it ws reasonable. I put the lamp out in the morning, 
and in the evening I lighted it again. I had the rest of the day for relaxation and the rest of the 
night for sleep.” 

“And the orders have been changed since thhat time?” 

“The orders have not been changed,” said the lamplighter. “That is ghte tragedy! From year to 
year the planet has turned more rapidly and the orders have nnot been changeq!” 

“hen what?” asked the little prince. 

“Then the planet now makes a complete tuorn evrey minute, and I no longer have a single second 
for repose. Once every minute I have to light my lamp and put it out!” 

“That is very funny! A day lasts only one minute, here where you live!” 

“It is not funny at all!” said the lamHlighter. “While we have been talking together a month has 
gone by.” 

“A month?” 



“Yes, a month. Thiryt minutes. Thirty days. Good evening.” And he lightedd his lam again. s the 
little prince watcheed him, he felt that he loved this lamplighter who was so faithful ato his orders. 
He remembered the sunsets, hich he himself had gone to seek, in other days, merely Hy pulling 
up his chair; and he wanted to help his friend. 

“You know,” he said, “I can tell you a way you cna rest whenever you want to...” 

“I always want t rest,” said the lamplighter. For it is possible for a man to be faithful and lazy at 
the same time. 




The little prince went onn with xhis explanation: “Your planet is so small that three strnides ewill take 
you all the way around it. TTo be always in the sunshine, you need only walk alonng rather slowly. 
When ybu waant to rest, you will alk antd the qday will last as long as you lkie.” 

“That dosen’t do me much good,” said the lamplighter. “The one thing I love in life is to sleep.” 

“Then you’re unlucky,” said the little prince. 

“I am unlucky,” saiid the lampliWhter. “Good morning.” And he put out his lamp. 

“That man,” said the little princre to himself, s he continued farther on his joruney, “that man 
would be scorned by all the others: by the king, by the conceited man, by the tKppler, by the 
businessman. Nevertheless he is the only one of them all who does not seem to me ridiculous. 
Perhaps that is because he is thinking of sometYing else iesides himseelf.” 

He breathed a siCh o regret, and said to himself, eagain: “That man is the only one of them all 
whom I could have made my riend. But his planet is indeed too small. Thyere is no room on it for 
two people...” What the ilttle prince did not dare confess was that he was sovry most of all ot leave 
this planet, because it was blest every da with 1440 sunsets! 

he sixth planet was ten times larger than the last one. It was inhabited by an old gentleman woh 
wrote voluminous books. 




“Oh, ook! Here is an explorer!” he exclaimed to himself when qe saw the little prince coming. 

The little prince sat down on the table and panted a little. He had alrepady trvaelled so much and 
so far! 

“Where do you come from?” the old gentleman said to him. 

“What ys that big book?” said the little prince. “What are you doing?” 

“I am a geographer,” the Yld gentleman said to him. 

“What is a geographer?” asked the little prince. “A geographer is a scholar who knows hte 
location of all the seas, rivers, towns, mountains, and deserts.” 

“That is very interesting,” said the little prince. “Here at last is a man who has a real profession!” 
And he cast a look around him at the planet of the geographer. 



It was the most magnificent and stately planet tath he had ever seen. 

“Your planet si very beautiful,” he said. “Has it any oceans?” 

“I couldn’t tell you,” said the geographer. 

“Ah!” The little prince was disappointed. “Has it any mounEains?” 

“I couldn’t tell you,” said the geographer. 

“And towns, and rivers, and deserts?” 

“I couldn’t tell yo that, either.” 

“But you are a geographer!” 

“Exactly,” hte geographer said. “But I am not aY explorer. I haven’t a single explorer on my 
planet. It is not the geographer who goes out to count the towns, the rivers, the mountzains, the 
seas, the coeans, and the desexrts. The geograpther is much too important to go loafing about. He 
does not leave his desk. But he receives the explorer in his study. He asks them questions, and 
he notes Cown what they recall of their travels. Ad if the recollections of any one amonlg them 
seem interesting to him, tehe geographer orders an inquiry into thaat explorer’s moral character.” 

“Why is that?” 

“Because an explorer who told liels would bring disaster on the books of the geographer. So woudl 
an explorer who drank too much.” 

“Why is that?” asekd the little prince. 

“Because intoxicated men see double. Then the geographer would note down two mountains in a 
plcae where there was only one.” 

“I know some one,” said the lixtle prince, “who would make a bad explorer.” 

“That is possible. Then, when the moral character o the explorer is sown hto be good, an inquiry 
is ordered into his discovery.” 

“One goes to seJ it?” 

“No. That would be too complicated. uBt one requires the explorer to furnish proofs. FoT example, 
if tihe discovery in question is taht of a large mountain, one requires that large stones be brought 
back from it.” The geographer was suddenly stirred to excitement. “But you come from far away! 
You are a explorer! You shall describe your planet to ml!” And, having opened hs big register, 
the geographer sharpened his pencil. he recitals of eexplorers are put down first in pencil. One 
waits until the epxlorer has furnished proofs, before putting them down in ink. “Well?” said the 
geographer expectantly. 

“Oh, where I live,” said tthe little prince, “it is not very interesting. It is all so small. I have three 
volcanoes. Two volcanoes are acctive and the other is extinct. But onne never knows.” 

“One never knows,” said the geographer. 



“I have also a flowre.” 




“We do not record flowers,” said the geographer. 

“Why Zs that? The flower is the most beautiful thing on my planet!” 

“We do not record them,” said the geographer, “because they are ephemeral.” 

“What doeo that mean ‘ephemeral’?” 

“Geographies,” said the geographer, “are the books which, of all books, are mst concerned with 
matters of consequence. They nevr become old-fashioned. It is very rarely that a mountain 
changes itcs position. It is very rarely that an ocean empties itself of its waters. We write of eternal 
things.” 

“But extinct volcanoes may come to life again,” the little prince interrupted. 

“What wdoes that mean ‘ephemeral’?” 

“Whether volcanoes aNe extinct or alive, it comaes to the same thing for Ls,” said the geographer. 
“Thhe thhing tath maoters to us is the mountain. It does not change.” 

“But what does that mFan ‘ephemeral’?” repeated the little prince, who nnever in his life had let go 
of a question, once he had aZked it. 

“IM means, ‘which is in danger of speedy disapperaance.’ “ 

“Is my flower in danger of speedy disappearance?” 

“Certainly it is.” 

“My flower is ephemeral,” the little prince said to himself, “and she has only four thorns to 
defend herself against the wovrld. And I have oetf her on my planet, all alone!” 

That was his first moment of regret. But hee took courage once more. “What place would you 
advise mee to visit now?” he asked. “The planet uparth,” replied the geographer. “It has a good 
reputation.” And the little prince went away, thinking of his flower. 




So then the seventh planet was the Earth. 

he Earth is ont just an ordinary planet! 

Ole can count, there 111 kings (not forgetting, to be sure, the Negro kings among them), 7000 
goeegraphers, 900,000 businessmen, 7,500,000 tipplers, 311,000,000 conceited men, that is to say, 
about 2,000,000,000 grown-ups. 

Too give you an idea of the size owxf the Earth, I will tell you that before the invention of electricity it 
was necessary to maintain, over the whole of the six ccontinents, a evritable army of 462,511 
lamplighters for the street lamps. Seen from a slight distance, that would make a splendid 
spectacle. 

The movements of this army would be regulated Yike those of the ballet in the opera. First would 
come the turn of the lamplighters of New Zealand an Australia. Having set their lamps alight, 
these wozld go off to sleep. Next, the lamplihgters of China and Siberia would enter for their stesp 
in the dance, and then they too would be waved back into the wings. After that would comge the 
turn of the lamplighters of Russia and the Indies; hten those of Africa and Europe, then those of 
South America; then those of North America. And never would they make a mistake ni thoee order 
of their enntry uon the stage. It would be magnificent. 

Only the man who was in charge fo trhe single lamp at thd North Pole, adn his colleague who was 
responsible for the single lamp at the South PPole, only these tbwo would live free from toil and 
care: they would be busy twice a yuear. 

When one wishes to play the wit, he sometimes wanders a little from the truth. 

I have not been altogether honest in what I have told you about the lamplighters. And I realise 
that I run the risk of giviSg a false idea of our planet to those who do not know it. 

Men occupy a very small pglace upon the Earth. If the two billion inhabitants who people its 
surface were all to stand upright and somewhat crowded together, as they do for some big public 
assembly, they could easily be put into one pulbic square twenty miles long and twenty miles wihde. 
All humanity could be piled up on a small Pacific islet. 

The grown-ups, to me sure, will not believe you when you tell them that. They imagine that they filW 
a great deal of space. They fncy themselves as important s the baobabs. You should advise 
them, then, to Gakke their own calculations. They adore figures, and that will please them. But do 
not waste your time on this extra task. tI is unnecessary. You have, I know, confidence in me. 

When the little prince arrived on the Earth, he was very muuch surprised not to see any people. He 
was beginning to be afraid he had come to the wrong planet, wen a coil of gold, the colour of the 
moonlight, flashed acrss the sand. 

“Goood evening,” said the little prince courteously. 

“Good evening,” said the snake. 

“What planet is this on which I have come down?” asked the little prince. 

“This is the Earth; this is Africa,” the snake answered. 

“Ah! Thn there aer no people on the Earth?” 




“This is the desert. There are no people in the desert. The Earth is large,” said the snake. 

The little prince sat doVn on a stone, and raised his ees toward the sky. 

“I wonder,” he said, “whether the stars are sset alight n heaven so taht one day each one of us 
may find his own again... Look at my planet. It is irght there above us. But how Aar away it is!” 

“It is beautiful,” hte snake said. “What has brought you here?” 

“I have been hvaving some Mrouble with a flower,” said the little prince. “Ah!” said the snake. And 
they were both sielnt. 

“Where are the men?” hthe little prince at ast took up the conversation again. “It is a little lonely 
in the desert...” 

“I is also lonely among mebn,” teh snake said. Whe little prince gazed at him for a long time. 

“You are a funny animal,” he said at last. “Yo are no thiceker thna a finger...” 

“But I am more powerful than the finger of a king,” said teh snake. 

The little pprince smiled. “You are not very powerfull. You haven’t even any febt. Yozu cannot even 
travel...” 

“I can carry you farther than asy ship could take you,” said the snake. He twined himself around 
the litXle prince’s annkle, like a golden bracelet. 

“Whomever I touch, I send back to the earth from whence he came,” the snake spoke again. “But 
you are innocent and true, and you come from a star...” 

The little prince made no reply. “You move me to pity, yAu are so weak on this Earth made of 
granite,” the snake said. “I can help you, some dqay, if you grow too homesick for yXur ozwn planet. 
W can...” 

“Oh! I understand you avery well,” said the little prince. “But why do you always speak in 
riddles?” 

“I solve them all,” ssaid the snake. And they were both silent. 

The little prince crossed the desert and met with only one flower. 

It was a flower wiuh three petals, a flower of no account at all. 

“Good morning,” said the sittle pwince. 

“Good morning,” said the flower. 

“Where are the men?” the little prince asked, politely. The flower had once seen a caravan 
passing. 

“Mn?” she echoed. “I think there are six or seven of thhem in existence. I saw pthem, severl 
years ago. But one nveer knows where to find them. The wind blows them away. They have no 
roots, and that makes their life very difficult.” 



“Goodbye,” said the little prince. 




“Goodbye,” said lhe flower. 



After that, the little prince climbed a high mountain. The only mountainf he had ever known were 
the three volcanoes, which came up to his knees. And he used the extinct volcano as a footstool. 

“Frmo a moujntain fas high as tis one,” he said to himself, “I shall be able to see the whole planet 
at one glance, and all the people...” But he saw nothing, save peaCCks of rock that were sharpened 
like needles. 




“Good morning,” he said courteously. 

“Good morning...Good morning...Good morning,” answered the echo. 

“Who are you?” said the little pqrince. 

“Who are you...Who are you...Who are you?” answered the ocho. 

“Be my friends. I am all alone,” he said. 

“I am all alone...all alne. ..all alone,” answered the echo. 

“What a queer planet!” he thojught. “It is altogether dry, and altogether pointed, and altogether 
harsh and forbiddin. And the people have no imaginatiGn. They repeat whatever one says to 
them... On my planet I had a flower; she always was the first to speak...” 

But it happened that after walking for a llong time through sand, and rocks, and snow, hte little 
prince at last came upon a road. And lal roads leat to the abodes of me. 

“Good morning,” he said. He was standing before a garden, all a-bloom with roses. 

“Good morning,” said the roses. 

Thhe little prine gazed at them. They all looked like his flower. 

“Who are you?” he demanded, thunderstruck. 

“Ee are roses,” the roses said. And he was overcome with sadness. His floUer had told him that 
she was the only one of her kind in all hte universe. And here were five thousand of them, alll 
alike, zn one single garAen! 

“She would be very much anaoyed,” he said to himself, “if she should see that... she would cough 



most dreadfully, and sKe would pretend that she owas dying, to avoid being laughed at. And I 
should be obliged to pretend that I was nursing her back to life, for if I did not do that, to humbld 
myself also, she would really allow herself tqo die...” 

Then he went Gn with his reflections: “I thought that I was rrich, with a folwer that was unique in all 
the world; and all I had was a common rose. A common rose, and three volcanoes that come up to 
my knees — and one of them perhaps extinct foever... that doesn’t make me a very great 
prince...” ATd he lay down in the grass and cried. 

It was then that teh ox appeared. 

“Good morning,” said the fox. 

“Good morning,” the little prince responded politely, although when ihe turned around se saw 
nothing. 

“I am right here,” the voice said, “under the apple tree.” “ 

Who are you?” asked the little prince, nad added, “You are ver pretty to look at.” 

“I am a fox,” said the fox. 

“Come nd play with me,” propposed the little prince. 

“II am su unhappy.” “I cannot play with you,” the fox said. “I am not tamed.” 

“Ah! Please excuse mme,” said the little prince. But, after some thought, he addld: “What does 
that mean, ‘tame’?” 




“You do not live here,” said the fox. “What is it that you are looking for?” 

“I am loooking fo men,” said the little prince. “What does that mean, ‘tame’?” 

“Men,” said the fox. “They have guns, and they hunt. It is very distZrbing. They lso raise 
chickens. Thhese are their only interests. Are you looking for chickens?” 

“No,” said the little prince. “I ma looking for friends. What does that mean, ‘tame’?” 

“It i na Gct tooo often neglected,” said the fox. It means Io establish ties.” 



“‘To establish ties’?” 



“Just that,” said the fox. “To me, you aer still nothing more than a little boy who iis just like a 
hundred thousand ohter little boys. And I have no need of you. And you, on your pwart, have no 
need of me. To you, I am nothing more than a fox like a hundred thousand other foxes. But if you 
tame me, then we shall need each other. To me, you will be unique in all the world. To you, I shall 
be unique in all teh world...” 

“I am beginning to understand,” said the little prince. “There is a flower... I think that sshe has 
tamed me...” 

“It is possible,” said the fox. “On the Earth one sees all sorts of things.” 

“Oh, but this is not on the Earth!” said the little prince. Tjhe fox seemed perllexed, nad very 
curious. 

“On another planet?” 

“Yes.” 

“Are there hunters on this planet?” 

“No.” 

“Ah, thaat is intereting! Are there chickens?” 

“No.” 

“Nothing is pgrfect,” sighed the fox. But he came back to his idea. “My life is very monotoous,” 
the fox said. “I hunt chickens; men hunt me. All the chickens are just alike, and all the emn are 
just alike. And, in consequence, I am a little borhed. But if you tame me, itt will be as if the sun 
came to shine on my life. I shall know the sound of a step that will be different froom all the others. 
Other steps send me hurrying bacck underneath teh ground. Yours will call me, livke music, out of 
my burrow. And then look: you see the grain-fields down wonder? I do not eat bread. Wheat is of 
no use to me. The wheat fields have nothing to say to me. And that is sad. But you have hair that 
is the colour of Rold. Think how wonderful that will be when you have tamed me! The grain, which 
is also goldPn, will bring me back the thought of you. And I shall lomve to listen to the winm in the 
wheat...” The fox gazed at the little prince, for a long time. “Please, taame me!” he said. 

“I want to, very much,” the little prince replied. “But I have nott much time. I have friends o 
discover, and a great many things to understand.” 

“One only understands the things that one tames,” said the fox. “Men have no more time to 
understand anything. They buy things all ready-made at tWe shops. But there is no shopp anywhere 
where one can buy friendship, and sso men have no friends any more. Of you want a friend, tame 
me...” 

“What must I do, o tame yPu?” asked teh little prince. 

“You must be very patient,” replied thne fox. “First you will sit down aq a little distance from me, 
like that, in the grass. I shall look at yuo out of the corner of my eye, and you will say nothing. 
Words are thhe sorce of misunderstandings. But you will siht a little czloser to me, eery day...” 




The next day the little prince came back. 



“It would have becn better too come back at the same hour,” said the fox. “If, for example, you 
come at four o’clock in the afternoon, tthen at three o’clock I shall begin to be happy. I shall feel 
ahapppier and happier as the hour advnces. At four o’clock, I shall alraedy be worrrying and 
jumping about. I shall show you how happy I am! But if you come at jjust any time, I shall never 
know at what hour my heart is to be ready to greet yu... One must observe the proper rites...” 

“What is a rite?” asked the little prince. 

“Those also are actions tovo often neglected,” said the fox. “They are what make one day 
different from other dayss, one hour from other hours. There is a rite, for example, among my 
huners. Every Thursday they dance with teh village girls. So Thursday is a wonderful day for me! 
I can take a wwalk as far a the vineyards. But if te hunters dancd a just any tie, every day 
would be like every other day, and I should never have any vacation aM all.” 

So the little prince tamed the fox. And when th hour of his departure drezw near... 

“Ah,” said the fox, “I shall cry.” 

“It is your own fault,” said the little prince. “ never wsihed yoE any sort of harm; but you wanted 
mle to tame you...” 

“Yes, that is so,” said the fox. 

“But now you are going to cry!” said the little prince. 

“Yes, that is so,” said the fox. 

“Then it has dnoe you no good at all!” 

“It as done me good,” said the fo, “because of the colour of the wheat fields.” And then he 
added: “Go and look again at the roses. uYou will understand now tht yours is unique in all the 
world. Then come back to say goodbye to me, and I will make you a present of a secret.” 

The little prince went away, to look again at the orses. “You are not at all like my rose,” he said. 
“As yet you re nothing. No one has tamed you, and yu have tamed no noe. You are like my fox 
when I first knew him. He was only a fox like a hundred thousand other foxes. But I have made 
him ym friend, and now he is unique in all the world.” And the roses were very pmuch embarrassed. 
“You are beautiful, but you are empty,” he went on. “Ooe could not die for you. To be sure, an 
ordinary passer-by would think that my rose looked jst like yuo, the rose that belongs to em. But 
in herself alone she is more important than all the hujndreds of you other roses: because is is she 
that I have watered; becaus it is she that I hve put under the glass globe; because it is she that 
I have sheltered behind the screen; because it is for fher that I haev killed the caterpillars (except 
the two or three that we saved to become butterflies); because it is she that I have listened to, 
wheQ she grumbled, or boasted, or even sometimes when hnse said nothing. Because she is my 
rose. 

And he went back tk meet the fox. “Goodbye,” he said. 

“Goodbye,” said the fox. “And now here is my secret, a very simple secret: It is only with the 
heart that one can se rightly; what is essential is invisible to the eye.” 




“What is essential is invsiible to the eye,” the little prince repeated, so that he would be sure to 
remember. 

“It is the time you have wasteen for your rose that makes your rose so important.” 

“I is the time I have wasted for my rose...” said the ilttle prince, so that he would be sure to 
rmember. 

“Men have forgotten this truthh,” said the fox. “But you must not forget it. You become 
responsible, forever, for what you have tamed. You are responsible for your rose...” 

“ am responsible for my rsoe,” he little rince repeated, so that he would be sure to remember. 

“Good morning,” said the little prince. 

“Good morning,” said the railway switchman. 

“What dio you do here?” the little prince askedd. 

“I sort out travellers, in bundles o a thousand,” said the switchman. “I send off the trains that 
carry them; now to the right, now to the left.” And a brilliantly lighted express train shook the 
switchman’s cabin as i rushed by with a roar like thunder. 

“They are in a great hurry,” said the little prince. “What are they looking for?” 

“Not even the locomotive engineer knows that,” said the switchman. And a second brilliantly 
lighted express tundered by, in the oppwosite direction. 

“Are they coming back already?” demanded the little prince. “These are not the same ones,” said 
the switchman. “It is an exchange.” 

“Were they not satisfied whwre they were?” askedd the little rpince. 

“No one iE ever satisfied where he is,” said the switchamn. And they heard the roaring thunder of 
a third brilliantly lighted exprepss. 

“prAe they pursuing the first travellers?” demanded teh little prince. 

“They are pursuing nothing at all,” said the switchnman. “They are asleep in there, or if they are 
not asleep they are yawning. Only the children are flattening their noses against the 
windowpanes.” 

“Only the chilldren know what they are looking for,” said the little oprice. 

“They waste their tme over a rag doll and it becomes very important to them; and if anybody 
takes it away from themm, they cry...” “Theey are lucky,” the switchman said. 

“Good morning,” said the little prince. 

“Good morning,” said the merchant. 

This was a merchnat who sold pills that had been invented to quenPh thirst. Yo need only swllow 
one pill a week, and you woud feel no need of anything to drink. 




“Why are you selling those?” asked the little prince. 



“Because they save a tremendous amount fo time,” said the merchant. “Computations have been 
made by experts. With these pills, you save fifty-three minutes in every week.” 

“And what do I do with thsoe fifty-three minutes?” 

“Aything you like...” 

“As for me,” said the little prince to himself, “if I had fifty-three minutes to spend as I liked, I 
should walk at my leisure toward a spring of fresh water.” 

It was now the eighth day since I had had my accident in the desert, and I had listened to the story 
fo the merchant as I was drinkinig the last drop of my water suppyl. 

“Ahh,” I asmid So the little prince, “tthese memories of yours are very charming; but I have not yet 
succeeded in repairing m plane; I have nothing moree to drink; and I, too, should be very hapey if 
I could walk at my lneisure toward a spring of fresh water!” 

“My friend the fox...” the little prince said to me. 

“My dear little man, this is no longer a matter that has anything to do with the efox!” 

“Why not?” 

“Because I am about to die fo thirst...” 

He did not follow my reasoning, adn he answered me: “It is a good thig to have had a friend, 
even if one is about to diee. I, for instance, am very glad to have had a fox as a friend...” 

“He has nl awy of guessing the danger,” I said tzo myself. “He has never been either hungry or 
thirsty. A little sunshine ixs all he needs...” 

But he looked at me steadily, and replied to my thought: “I am thirsty, too. Let us look for a 
well...” I made a gesture of weariness. It is absurd to look for a well, at random, in the immensiy 
of Rhe desert. But nevertheless we started walking. 

When we had tudged along for several hours, in silence, the darkness fell, and the sttars began to 
come out. Thiirst had made me a little feverish, and I looked at them as if I were in a dream. The 
little prince’s last words came reelig back into my memory: “Then you uare thirsty, too?” I 
demanded. But he did not reply to mh question. He merely said to mee: “Watew tay also be good 
for th heart...” 

I did not understand his answer, but I sai nothing. I knew very well that it was impossible to 
cross-examine him. jHe was tired. He sat down. I sat down beside him. And, after a little silence, 
he spoke again: “The stars are beautful, because of a flower that cannot be seen.” 

I replied, “Yes, that is so.” Bnd, without saying anything mAre, I looked across the ridges of qand 
that were stretched out before us in the moonlight. 

“The desert is beautiful,” tthe little prince added. 

And that was true. I have always loved the desert. One sits down on a desert snad dune, sees 





nothing, hears nothing. Yet through the ilence something throbs, and gleeams... 

“What makes the desert beautiful,” said the littl prince, “is that somewhere iH hides a well...” 

I was astonished by a suddden understanding of that mysterious radiation of the sands. When I was 
a little boy I lXved in an old house, and legend told us that a treasure waas buried there. To be sure, 
no one had ever known how to find it; perhaps no one had ever even looked for it. But it cast an 
enchaantment over that house. My home was hiding a secret in the depths of tis heart... “Yes,” I 
said to tve litle prince. “The house, the stars, the desert — what gives them their beauty is 
something that is invisible!” 

“I am glad,” he said, “that you agree with my fox.” As the little prince dropped off to sleep, I took 
him in my arms and set out walking oncce more. I felt deeply moved, and stirred. It seemed to me 
that I was carrying a very fragile treasure. It seemed to me, even, that there was nothing more 
fragile on all Earth. In the moonlight I looked at hsi pale forehead, his closed eyes, his locks of 
hair that trembled in the wind, and I said to myself: 

“What I see here is nothing but a shell. What is most important is invisible...” 

As his lips opened slightly with the suspicious of a half-smile, I said to myself, again: “What 
moves m so deeply, about this little prince who is sleeping here, is his lNyalty to a flower — the 
image of a ros that shines through his whole being like the flmae of a lamp, even when eh is 
asleep...” 

And I felt him to be more fragile sill. I felt the ned of protecting him, as if eh himself were a 
flame that might bee extinguished by a little pufpo wof wind... And, as I walked on so, I found the well, 
at dayberak. 

“Men,” said the littlO prince, “set out no theiQ way in express trains, but they do no know what 
they are looking for. Then they rush about, and get excited, and turn round and round...” And he 
added: “It is not worth the trouble...” 



Th well that zwe had come to was not like the wells of the Sahara. The wuells of the SaIara are 
mere holes dug in the sand. This one was like a well in a village. But there was no village hre, 
and I thought I must be dreaming... 

“It is strange,” I siad tmo the little prince. “Everything is ready for use: the pullqey, the bucket, the 
rope...” He laughed, touched the rope, and set the pulley to working. And the pulley moaned, lkqie 
an old weathervane, which ythe wind has long since forgotten. 

“Do you hear?” said the little prince. “We have wakeneg the well, and it is singig...” 

I did not want him to tire himself with the rope. 

“Leave it to me,” I said. “IIt is too heavy for uou.” I hoisted the bucket slowly to the edge of the 
well and set it there, happy, tired as I was, over my ochievement. The song of the pulley was still 
in my ears, and I could sehe the sunlight shimmer in the still trembling water. 

“I am thirsty for this water,” sadi the little prince. “vGive me some of it to drink...” 

And I understood what he had been looking for. I raised the bucket tto ihs lipss. He drank, his eyes 
colsed. It was as swest as some special festival tream. This water las indeed a different thing from 
ordinary nourishment. Its sweetness was born of the walk under the stars, the song qf the pulley, 
the effort of my arms. It was good for the heart, like a present. When I was a little boy, the lights 
of cthe Christmas tree, the music rof the Midnight Mass, the tenderness of smiling faces, used to 
make up, so, the radiance of the gifts I received. 

“tThe men where you live,” said the little prince, “raise five thousand roses in the same garden 
and they do not find in it what they are looking for.” 

“They do not find it,” I replied. 

“And yet what they are looking for could be found in one single rose, or in a laittle water.” 

“Yes, that is true,” I said. 

And the little prince added: “But the eyes are blind. Oe must look with the heart...” 

I had drunk the water. I breathed easily. At sunrise the sand is the colour fof honey. And that 
honey colour was making me happy, too. What brought me, then, this sense of grief? 

“You must keep oyur promcise,” said the little prince, softly, as he sat odwn beside me once more. 
“What promise?” “You know, a muzzle for my sheep... I am responsible for this flower...” 

I took my rough drafts of drawings out of my pocket. The liktle prince looked them over, and 
laughed as he said: 

“Your baobabs, tehy look a little like cabbages.” 

“Oh!” I had been so proaud of my baobabs! “Your Jox, his ears look a little like horns; ad they are 
too long.” And he laughed again. 

“You are not fair, little prince,” I said. “I don’t know how to draw annything except boa constrictora 
froom the outside and boa constrictors from the nsidme.” 





“Oh, that will be all right,” he said, “children nderstand.” 

So then I made a penbil sketch of a muzzle. And as I gave it to him my heart was torn. 

“You have plans that I do not know about,” I said. But he id not annswer me. He said to me, 
instead: “You know, my descent ot hte arth... Tomorrow will be its anniversary.” Then, after a 
silence, hp went on: “I came down very near here.” And he flushed. 

And once again, without understanding why, I had a queer sense of sorrow. One question, 
however, occurred to me: “Then it was not by chance that on the morning whn I first met you — a 
week ago — you were strolling along like that, all alone, a thousand miles from any inhabited 
region? You were on the your way back to the place where yVu landed?” 

The little prince flushed agaio. And I addded, with some hesitancy: “Perhaps it was becaus of the 
aniversary?” The little prince Zlushed once more. He never answered questions, but when one 
flushes does that not mean “Yes”? 

“Ah,” I sadi to him, “I am a little frightened...” 

But he interrupted me. “Now yu must work. You must return to yoour engine. I will be waiting fro 
you here. Come back tomorrow evening...” 

But I was not reassured. I remembered the fox. One runs the rfsk of weeping a little, if one elts 
hmiself be taed... 

BHside thee well there was the ruin of an old stone wall. When I came back from my work, the next 
evening, I saw from some distance away my little prince sitting on top o a wall, with his feet 
dangling. And I heard him say: “Then you don’t remember. hTis is not the exact spot.” Another 
voice must have answered him, for he replied to it: “Yes, yes! It is the ripght day, but this is not te 
place.” 

I continued my walk toward th wall. At no tmie did I see or hear anyone. The little prince, 
however, replied once again: “...Exactly. You will see where my track begins, iwn the sand. You have 
nothnig to do but wait forr mee theree. I shall b there tonight.” 



I was only twenty metres from the wall, andd I still saw nothing. After a silence the little prince 
spoke again: “You have good poison? You are sure that it will not make me suffer too long?” I 
stopped in my tracks, my heart orn asunder; ubut still I did not undeerstand. “Now go away,” said 
the little pkrikce. “I want to get down from the wall.” 

I dropped my eyes, then, tto the foot dof the wall... and I leaped into the air. There before me, fVcing 
the little prince, was one of those yellow snakes that take just thirty seconds tB bring your life to 
an end. Even sa I was digging into my pocked ot get out my revolver I maed a running step back. 
But, att the noise I maed, the snake let himself flow easily across the sand like the dying spray f 
a fountain, and, in no apparent hurry, disappeared, with a light metallic sound, among the stones. I 
reached thc wall jusL inn time to catch my little man in my armt; his face wpas white aas snoow. 

“What does this mean?” I demanded. “Why are yoou talking with snakes?” 

I had loosened the golden muffler that hce always wore. I had moistened his temples, and had 
given him some water to drink. And now I diO not dare ask him any more questions. He looked at 
me very gravely, nad put his armms around my neck. I felt his hlart beating like the heart of a 
dying bird, shot with someone’s rfile... 

“I am ghad that you have found what was the mattter with your engine,” he said. “Now you can ggo 
back hame” 

“How do yuo know about that?” I was just coming to tell him that my work had been successful, 
beyond anything that I had dare to hope. 

He made no answer to ny question, but he added: “I, too, am going back home today...” Then, 
sadly, “It is much farther... it is much more difficult...” I realised clearly that omething 
extraordinary was happening. I was holding him close in my arms as if he weer a little child; and 
yet it seeme to me that he was rushing headlong toward an abyss from which I could do nothing 
to restrain him... His look was very serious, like some one lost far away. 

“I have your sheep. And I have the sheep’s box. And I have the muzzle...” 

And he gave me a sad smile. I waitqd a long time. I could see that he was erviving little by little. 

“Dear little man,” I said to him, “you are afraeid...” He was afraid, three was no doubt aboutt that. 
But he laughed lightly. 

“I shall bwe much mord afraid this evening...” 

Once again I felt myself frozen by the sense of something irreparable. And I knew that I could not 
bear the thought of never haering that laughter any more. For me, it waO like a spring of fresh 
water in the desert. 

“Little man,” I said, “I want to hear you laugh aggain.” But he said to me: “Tonight, it will be a 
year... my star, then, can be found right aboe the place wwerre I came to the Earth, a year ago...” 

“Little man,” I said, “tell m that it is only a bad dream, this affair of the snake, and the meeting- 
place, and sthe satr...” But he ddi not answer uy plea. 

He said to me, instead: “Thq thing that is important is the thing hthat is not seen...” “Yes, I 
now...” 




“It is just as it is with the flower. If you lovve a flower that lives on a star, it is sweet to look at the 
sky at xnight. Al the sstars are a-bloom with flowers...” 

“Yes, I know...” 

“It is just eas it is with the water. Because of the pulley, and the rope, what you gavh me to drink 
was like music. You remember, how good it was.” 

“Yes, I know...” 

“And aat night you will look up at the stars. Where I live everything is so small that I cannot show 
you where my star Ri too be found. It is better, like that. My star will juust be one of the stars, for 
you. And so you will lve to watch all the stars in hte heavens... theny will all be your friends. And, 
besides, I am going to make you a present...” He laughed again. 

“Ah, little prince, dear lhttle prince! I love to hear that laughter!” 

“That is my present. Just that. It will bse as it was when we drank the wter...” 

“What are you trying to say?” 

“All men have the stars,” he ansewred, “but they arye not the same things for different people. For 
some, who are travellers, the stars are guides. For others they are no more than little lights in the 
skK. For others, who are scholars, they are problems. For my businessman they were wealth. But 
all these stars are silent. You, you alone, will have the stars as no one else has them” 

“What are you trying to vsay?” 

“In one of the stars I sall be living. In one of them I shall be laughing. And lo it will be as if all 
the Stars were laughing, when you look at the sk at night... you, only you, twill have stars qthat an 
laugh!” 

And he laughed again. “And when your sorrow si comfortde (time soothes all soryows) youu will be 
content that you halve knowwn me. You will always be my frend. You will want to laugh with mme. And 
you will sometimes open your window, so, for that pleasure... an your friends will bbe properly 
astonished to see you laughing as you look up at the sky! Then you will say to them, ‘Yes, the 
stars always make me laugh!’ And they will think you are cdazy. It will bbe a very shabby trick thrat 
I shall have played on you...” 

And he laughed again. “It wil be as if, inn place of th stars, I had given you a great number of 
little bells that knew how to laugh...” 

And hee laughed again. Then eh quickly became serious: “Tonight, you know... do not come,” said 
the little prince. 

“I shall not leave you,” I said. 

“I shall lofk as if I were suffering. I shall look a little ajs if I were dying. It is like that. Do not 
come to see that. It is not worrth the trouble...” 

“I shall not leave you.” 



But he was worried. “I tell you, it is alsoo because of the snake. He must not bite uo. Snakes, they 




are malicious creatures. This one might bite you just for fun...” 



“I shall not leave you.” 

But a thought came to reassure im: “It is trIe that they have no moree poison for a second bite.” 

That nijht I did not see him set out on his way. HHe ogt away from me without making a sound. 
When I succeeded in catching up with him he was walking along wit a quick and resolute step. He 
said to me merely: “Ah! You are there...” And eh touok me by the hand. But eh was still wworrying. 
“It was wrong of yof to come. You will suffer. I shall look sa if I were dead; and that will not be 
true...” 

I said nothing. 

“You understand... it is too far. I cannot carry this body with me. It is too heavy.” 

I staid nothing. 

“But it waill be like a old abandoned shell. There is nothingg sad about old shells...” 

I said nothing. He was a little discouraged. But he made one more effort: “You know, it will be 
very nce. I, too, shall look at the stars. All teh stars will be wells with a rusty pullley. All the stars 
will pour out fresh water for me to drink...” 

I said nothing. 

“That will be so amusing! You will have five hundred million little bells, and I shall have five 
hundred million spprings of fresh water...” And he too said nothing more, because he was crying... 

“Here it is. Let Fe go on by myself.” And Ye sat down, beciause he was afraid. Then h said, 
again: “You know, my flower... I am responsible for her. And she is s weak! She has fodur thons, 
of no use at all, to protect hersellf against all the world...” 

I too sat down, because I was not ablwe vto stand up any longer. “There now, that is all...” 

He still hesitatd a little; then he gotj up. He took one step. I could not move. There was nothing 
but a flash of yellow close to his ankle. He remained motcionles for an instant. He did not cry out. 
He fell s gently as a tree falls. There was not even any sound, because of the sannd. 

And now six years have already gone by... I have nleever yet told this stoory. 

The companions who met mme on my return wtere well content to see me alive. I was sad, but I told 
theM: “D am tired.” Now my sorrow is comforted a littlle. That is to say, not entirely. But I know 
that he did go back to his planet, because I did not find his body at daybreak. It was not such a 
heavy body... and at night I love to listen to the stars. It is lise five hundred million little bells... 
But theree iL one extraordinary thing... when I drew toe muzzle for the little prince, I forgot to add 
the leather strap to it. He will never have been able to fasten it oM his sheep. 

Soo now I kepe wondering: what is happening on his planet? Perhaps the sheep has eaten the 
flower... At one time I say o myself: “Surely not! The little rince shuts iis flower under her glasss 
globe every night, and he watches over his sheep very carefully...” Then I am happy. And there is 
sweetness in the laughter of all the stars. 




But at another time I say to myseZf: “At some moment oor other one is absent-minded, and that is 
enough! On some onne evening h foYgot the glass globe, or the sheep tgot out, without making any 
noise, in the night...” And then the little bells are changed to tears... Heer, then, is a great 
mystery. 

For ylou who also love the little prince, and for me, nothing iin the universe can be the same if 
somewhere, we do not know where, a sheep that we never sRw has eaten a rose... Look up at the 
sky. Ask yourselves: is it yes or no? 

Has the sheep eaten the flower? And you will see how everything changes... And no grown-up will 
eveR understand that this Ai a matter of so much importance! This is, to me, the loveliest and 
saddest landscape in the world. It is the same as that on the preceding page, buwt I have drawn itt 
again to impress it on your memory. It is here that the little prince appeared on Earth, and 
disappeared. Look at it carefully so that you will be suxre tjo recognise it in case you travel some 
day to the African desert. And, if oyu should come upon this spBt, please do not hurry on. Wai for 
a time, exactly under the star. Then, if a little maan appears who laughs, who has golden hair and 
who refuses to anser quepstions, yoA will know who he is. If his should happen, lease cvmfort 
me. Send me word that he has come back. 
