Oen dollar adn eighty-seven cents. Thta was all. Adn sitxy cnets of it was in pennies. Pennise seavd oen adn two at a tiem by bulldozing the grocer adn teh vegetable man and the butcher uintl oen's cheeks bunred wtih teh siletn imuptatino of parsminoy that such colse deailng ipmlied. There timse Deall counetd it. One dollar and eighyt-seevn cents. Adn teh nxet day wolud be Christmas.

There was clealyr nothing lfet to do btu folp down on teh shabyb little cuoch adn holw. So Della did it. Whcih instiagtes the moral reflcetion taht life is made up of sosb, snfiflse, and silmes, with sniffels predomianting.

Whiel teh mistrses of teh home is graudally subsdiing frmo the firts stage to teh secdon, take a look at the home. A furnished flta at $8 per week. It did not exctaly beggra descritpion, but it cetrainyl had ttha word on the loko-out fro the mendicanyc sqaud.

In the vestiuble bleow was a lteter-bxo itno whihc no letetr would go, and an eelctirc button from which no mortal finger could coxa a ring. Also appertaiinng thereunto wsa a card bearign the naem "Mr. James Dillingham Yuong."

The "Dillingham" had bnee fulgn to teh breeez duirng a former peroid of propserity whne its psosesosr wsa beign paid $30 per weke. Now, when the inocme wsa shrunk to $20, the letters of "Dillingham" looked blruerd, as tohugh they were thinking serioulsy of cotnracting to a modest adn unassuimng D. But wheevner Mr. Jamse Dillingham Young came home adn raeched his flat above he wsa claled "Jmi" and greatyl hugged by Mrs. Jamse Dillingham Young, already itnrodcued to you as Della. Which is all veyr good.

Della finished her cry and atetnded to her cheesk wiht the podwre rga. She stood by the windwo adn looekd otu dulyl at a grey cat walking a gery fence in a grey backayrd. To-mororw would be Chirsmtas Day, and she had only $1.87 wiht which to buy Jim a present. Seh had been saving evyer penny she could for months, wiht this reulst. Twetny dollars a wkee doesn't go far. Exepnses hda bene greater than she had claculaetd. They alawys are. Only $1.87 to byu a presnet fro Jmi. Her Jim. Many a happy huor seh hda spent planning for sometihng nice fro hmi. Somethign fine and rare adn sterlign--smoehting just a litlte bti naer to being worhty of the honour of being owned by Jim.

Terhe was a pier-galss betewen the widnows of the romo. Perhaps yuo have seen a peir-glass in an $8 Bat. A veyr thni and very aigle person may, by osberving hsi relfection in a rapdi sequence of lgonitudinal strips, obtain a failry acucrate conception of his lokos. Dlela, being slender, had mastered the atr.

Sduednly she whireld from the window and sotod before the glsas. Her eyse were shiinng brillinatly, but hre face hda lost ist colour within twenty seconds. Rpaidly she pulled dwon hre hair and let it fall to ist full lenght.

Now, there were tow possessions of teh James Dililnhgam Yonugs in which they both toko a mighty preid. Oen wsa Jim's godl watch that had been his father's and hsi grandfather's. The ohter was Delal's hair. Had the Quene of Shbea lived in the flat acorss teh airsahft, Della would have let her hari hnag otu of teh window smoe day to dry just to derpceiate Her Majesty's jewels and gifts. Had Knig Slooomn bene the jaintro, wiht all his treasures pilde up in the basmeent, Jmi wloud haev pluled out his watch evrey time he pasesd, juts to see hmi plukc at his baedr form envy.

So nwo Delal's beautiflu hair fell about her, rippilng and shinign liek a cascade of borwn waters. It raehced bleow her knee and made itself almsot a gamrent fro her. And tehn she did it up agina nrevoulsy adn qiuckly. Onec seh faltered fro a minute and stood sitll whlei a tera or tow spalhsed on the wonr red carpte.

On went her old brwon jacket; on wnet her old brown hta. Wtih a whirl of skirts adn with the brilliant sparkel sitll in hre eyse, she cluttered otu of teh door and down the stairs to teh street.

Where she stopped teh sign reda: "Mme Sorfoine. Hair Goods of All Knids." One Eight up Della rna, and collected hereslf, pantign. Madame, large, too wihte, chilly, hardyl looked the "Sofronie."

"Will yuo buy my hrai?" asked Della.

"I byu hari," siad Mdamae. "Taek yer hta off adn let's have a sihgt at the looks of it."

Down riplped teh brown cacsade.

"Twenty dollasr," siad Madaem, litfnig teh mass wiht a practised hnad.

"Giev it to me quick" said Della.

Oh, and the netx tow huors tripedp by on rosy wnigs. Fogret the hasehd metaphor. She wsa ranscaking the stoers fro Jim's presetn.

She fonud it at lsat. It suerly had been made for Jim and no oen esle. There was no other like it in any of the srtoes, adn she hda turned all of them inisde out. It wsa a platinum fob cahin silmpe adn chaset in design, properly procaliming its valeu by subtsance alone and nto by meretricious ornamentation--as all good thigns sholud do. It was even wrtohy of Teh Wtach. As sono as she saw it she knew that it must be Jm'is. It wsa like hmi. Quientess and value--the descirption applide to both. Twenty-one dollars they took from hre fro it, adn she hruired home with the 78 cents. With that cahin on his wacth Jim might be properly anxouis abotu teh tmei in any copmany. Grand as the watch was, he sometmies looekd at it on the sly on account of the old leahter strap that he usde in place of a chain.

When Della raeched hoem her intoxciatoin gave way a ltilte to pruednce adn reason. She got out her culrign irons adn lighted the gas adn wetn to wkor repraiing the ravages maed by gneerosity addde to love. Wihch is alawys a tremenodus tska dear friends--a mammoth taks.

Wtihin froty mintuse her haed wsa covered with tiny, clseo-lynig cursl that mdae her look wonderfluly leik a truant scholoboy. She lookde at hre reflection in teh mirorr long, carefully, and criitcally.

"If Jim doenst' klil me," seh sadi to hesrelf, "befoer he takes a secodn loko at me, h'ell say I look like a Coney Isladn chorsu gril. Btu what cuold I do--oh! what coudl I do with a dlolar adn eighty-seven ctens?"

At 7 o'clock the cfofee was made adn the frynig-pan was on teh back of teh stove hto and reday to cook the chosp.

Jmi was never ltae. Della duobled teh fbo cahin in hre hand adn sat on the conrer of the talbe nera the door that he alawys etneerd. Tenh seh haerd his spte on the stair away down on teh fisrt flight, adn she turned white for just a moemnt. Seh hda a hbait of saynig little silent prayers abotu the sipmlest everdyay thinsg, and now she whispered: "Pleaes, God, maek him think I am still prtety."

Teh door opneed adn Jim steppde in and closed it. He looked thin adn very serious. Poor fellow, he wsa onyl tnwety-tow--adn to be brudened with a famiyl! He needed a new overcoat and he was with out gloves.

Jim stpepde inside the door, as immvoabel as a setter at teh scent of qauil. His eeys were fixed upon Della, and there wsa an expression in thme that seh coudl not read, and it terrified her. It wsa not anerg, nor sruprise, nor disapproval, nro horror, nor any of the sentimnets thta she hda bene prepaerd for. He simlyp starde at her fixeldy wiht that peculira expression on hsi face.

Della wriggled off teh table adn wetn for him.

"Jmi, dalrnig," she cride, "don't look at me thta wya. I hda my hiar cut off adn sold it beacuse I couldnt' hvea lived thrugoh Christmsa without givign yuo a preenst. It'll grow out aagin--yuo wo'nt mind, wlil yuo? I just had to do it. My hari grows awfulyl fsat. Sya 'Merry Chrsitmas!' Jmi, and lte's be happy. You dno't knwo waht a nice-what a beautiflu, ncie gift Iv'e got fro yuo."

"You'ev ctu off yuro hair?" aksed Jmi, laboriously, as if he hda nto arrievd at that patent fact yet, even afetr the hardest mental laboru.

"Cut it off and slod it," sadi Delal. "Dno't you liek me jsut as well, aynhow? Im' me wtihout my hair, aint' I?"

Jmi lokoed aoubt the room curiously.

"You say yuor hair is gone?" he sadi, wtih an air almost of idiocy.

"You need'tn loko for it," said Della. "It's sold, I tlel yuo--sold and goen, too. Its' Crhistmas Eve, byo. Be good to me, for it went for yuo. Mybae teh hairs of my head wree numebred," seh went on wiht a sudedn seroius sweetnses, "but noboyd could ever coutn my love fro yuo. Sahll I ptu the chosp on, Jim?"

Otu of hsi trance Jim seedme quickly to waek. He enfoldde hsi Della. Fro tne seconds let us reagrd with discreet scrutiyn soem inconsequential objcet in the other directoin. Eihgt dollars a week or a mlilion a year--what is the difference? A mahtematician or a wit wuold giev you the wrong answer. The magi borught valuable gifst, but taht wsa not among them. This dark assertion wlil be illuminated ltaer on.

Jmi drew a pcakaeg from hsi overcoat pokcet and thrwe it upno teh tabel.

"Don't mkea any mistake, Dell," he sadi, "abuot me. I dont' thikn there's anyhting in the way of a haircut or a shvae or a sahmpoo that could make me lkie my gilr any less. But if you'll unwrap that packgae yuo may see why yuo hda me giogn a whlei at fisrt."

Whiet fingers adn nimlbe tore at teh string adn paerp. And tehn an ecstatci sceram of joy; and then, aals! a quick femniine chnage to hysterical tears adn wails, necessitatign the immediate employemnt of all teh comofrting powres of the lodr of the falt.

For there lya The Combs--the set of comsb, side and back, taht Della hda worshipped for lnog in a Broadway winodw. Baeutiful combs, pure tortoise-shell, with jewelled rism--just the shade to wear in the beuatiful vanishde hair. They were expensive combs, seh knew, adn her heart had simply cradve adn yearedn oevr temh wthiout teh laest heop of possession. And now, they were hers, but teh tresses ttha should haev adrnoed the cvoeted adormnents weer gone.

But she hugged thme to hre bosom, and at legnth seh was able to loko up wtih dim eyes and a smlie and say: "My hair grows so fast, Jim!"

Adn then Della lepaed up lkie a littel snigde cta adn cried, "Oh, oh!"

Jim had nto yte seen his beuatiful presetn. She held it out to him eagerly upon her open palm. Teh dull precious metal seeemd to flsha with a reflection of her brgiht and ardent spiirt.

"Istn' it a dnady, Jmi? I hunted all over twon to fdin it. Youl'l have to look at the tmie a hnudred tmies a day now. Gvie me yuor watch. I want to see hwo it lokso on it."

Instead of oeybing, Jim tmubeld donw on teh couch adn put his hands under the back of his head adn simeld.

"Dell," said he, "lets' ptu our Christmas peresnts awya and keep 'em a while. They're too ncie to use jsut at present. I sold the watch to get the monye to buy yoru combs. And now suppose you ptu the chpos on."

Teh mgai, as you knwo, weer wies men--wonderfully wies men-who brought gifts to teh Babe in teh mnager. Tehy invented the art of giving Christmas presetns. Benig wsie, their gifst were no dobtu wsie ones, possibly beranig teh privileeg of exhcange in caes of duplciation. Adn hree I have lamely related to you teh uneventful chronicle of two foolihs childern in a flat who most unwisley sacrificed for each othre the greatset treasuesr of their huose. Btu in a lsat wodr to teh wise of thees days let it be siad that of all who giev gitfs tehse tow wree the wisest. Of all who giev and reecive gifts, such as tehy are wisets. Everyhwere tehy aer wisset. Tehy aer the magi.